---
title: "The Making of 'A Noble Pursuit': A Postmortem"
date: 2022/12/25
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1579403124614-197f69d8187b?ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&auto=format&fit=crop&w=500&h=500&q=30
---
# The Making of A Noble Pursuit: A Postmortem 📕

<h3 id="why-i-started-writing">How It All Started ❓</h3>

[A Noble Pursuit](https://thejayduck.itch.io/a-noble-pursuit) is a visual novel about a noble girl named Carolina, and her dream of becoming a merchant.

The game was developed over the course of two months for the [Winter Visual Novel Jam 2022](https://itch.io/jam/winter-vn-jam-2022). I usually tackle game jams with my friends, but this time I wanted to improve my skills, particularly writing.

</br>

A month before the jam started, I had already participated in [Spooky 2D Jam '22](https://itch.io/jam/spooky-2d-jam-2022/) so I was rather reluctant to join yet another game jam right after.

But thanks to my friend [crissNb](https://crissnb.github.io/), who is a brilliant Unity developer, encouraged me to join it nonetheless. And so I did!

<h3 id="pre-production">Pre-Production ⚙️</h3>

On the 6th of November, I began the pre-production phase of the game, which consisted of writing the draft, and drawing the characters that were going to take place.

</br>

Since I am quite new to the world of writing I began to experiment by writing my draft in a screenplay fashion. My initial writing goal was to have around 2.5k words (~15 Minutes of Playtime), but in the middle of November, I had already written 6000 words and had only reached the climax of the game. Props to [crissNb](https://crissnb.github.io/) for helping me come up with ideas throughout the drafting phase.

</br>

Anyways, the writing was going surprisingly well, drawing on the other hand... well let's say I had to redraw certain all characters a few times. More on that in the upcoming part.

<h3 id="production">Production 🖥️</h3>

A few days before the game jam officially started, I had completed my draft and base character sprites. Things were going terrifyingly well, and spoilers, everything went super well afterward.

</br>

Before starting to edit the story I took a week-long break from writing. Meanwhile, I focused on *ahem* redrawing every character. You might ask "But why?", here's the thing, I managed to improve my art style considerably during the pre-production phase, which led me into hating my previous works. And so, I redrew; Carolina 20 times (I redrew her base 4 times, and had to redraw her 4 unique outfits once more.), Hulderic 3 times, and recolor Alexandra, Ubel, and Benjamin to fit the new art style. Weirdly enough, I did enjoy redrawing, mainly because I had improved so much within a short time frame.

</br>

When I finally finished, a week had already passed, which implied it was time for me to take a look at the... ***awful*** draft. How in the world does one write such a terrible story? I was discouraged by this, to the point of almost rewriting the draft. But luckily I stumbled upon various posts about how " the first draft sucks" and so on.

</br>

With a glimmer of hope I put my trust into the editing process and created a new document. This time I decided to write it Ren'Py format, in order to make the transition into the game script as simple as 'Ctrl+C' and 'Ctrl+V'. And ***WOW*** editing really did make the story more interesting and fun to read! But I still needed an extra pair of eyes, and by that I mean the help of [Avellox](https://avellox.itch.io/). She helped me by pointing out the mistakes, the areas I could improve, and some additional content.

</br>

The editing process took around 2 weeks, and during that time I started redrawing the CG for 'Act 4'. Yes "Redrawing". Before I had redrawn Carolina in a way where her design had changed, I had the CG completed. So I needed to redraw it with her new design. I thought I could get away by drawing over her old design but it didn't look right. So I redrew it completely once more, which had an awful lineart. Remember how I said redrawing characters was fun, this wasn't... I felt frustrated once more feeling inferior about my art. I had to learn more about lineart, and began the search for youtube tutorials. After spending roughly a day learning about lineart, I managed to draw lineart like I never did before, thank you [Marc Brunet](https://youtube.com/channel/UCKtu_JtQCY0yryIy6zK4ZCg)!

</br>

I would explain the process of transitioning my edited script into Ren'Py but like I mentioned before it was easy as copying and pasting.

</br>

And so came an end... Wait no, not yet, I still had to draw an extra sketch for the people who buy the 'Art Pack'. The same process happened as the characters, I redrew it a good 6 times. Thankfully it was only the poses I had drawn, so it didn't take a toll on me.

<h3 id="conclusion">Conclusion</h3>

Overall, I am very happy with how the game turned out. While it was a challenge to tackle the game by myself, I am astonished by the improvements in my writing and drawing.

Thank you much for reading my lengthy rambling, and I hope you enjoyed playing this game!

</br>

[You Can Play The Game By Clicking Here](https://thejayduck.itch.io/a-noble-pursuit)